git/README.md, before:

# Links and Resources
- [How to Use Git Version Control System in Linux [Comprehensive Guide]](https://www.tecmint.com/use-git-version-control-system-in-linux/)
- [the simple guide/getting started (no deep shit)](http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/)
- [A private GIT server crash course (HackADay)](https://hackaday.com/2018/06/27/keep-it-close-a-private-git-server-crash-course/)
- [Pro Git latest edition](https://github.com/progit) Best book ever: free, full of examples, friendly pdf and available on github naturally !
- [Git Commands Explained with Cats](https://girliemac.com/blog/2017/12/26/git-purr/). Cutest guide around. Everybody wants a guide for git with cats :)


## Various links
- Setting Up the Server  
  https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-on-the-Server-Setting-Up-the-Server
- How to create and apply a patch with Git  
  https://www.devroom.io/2009/10/26/how-to-create-and-apply-a-patch-with-git/
- Working with multiple remote repositories  
  https://jigarius.com/blog/multiple-git-remote-repositories


---

# github.com related resources
### `gitub push` error on command line after enabling 2FA auth
I was expecting some kind of error on command line after enabling 2 Factor Authentication (2FA) because `git push` doesn't care about it. Official github guide on this topic is reported as:
(https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line).
This solution suggests using access tokens as preferred way to solve it, sounds nice and easy to me.

Commit message:

download the changes contained in a Github pull request as a unified diff

git/README.md, after:

# Links and Resources
- [How to Use Git Version Control System in Linux [Comprehensive Guide]](https://www.tecmint.com/use-git-version-control-system-in-linux/)
- [the simple guide/getting started (no deep shit)](http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/)
- [A private GIT server crash course (HackADay)](https://hackaday.com/2018/06/27/keep-it-close-a-private-git-server-crash-course/)
- [Pro Git latest edition](https://github.com/progit) Best book ever: free, full of examples, friendly pdf and available on github naturally !
- [Git Commands Explained with Cats](https://girliemac.com/blog/2017/12/26/git-purr/). Cutest guide around. Everybody wants a guide for git with cats :)


## Various links
- Setting Up the Server  
  https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-on-the-Server-Setting-Up-the-Server
- How to create and apply a patch with Git  
  https://www.devroom.io/2009/10/26/how-to-create-and-apply-a-patch-with-git/
- Working with multiple remote repositories  
  https://jigarius.com/blog/multiple-git-remote-repositories
- Download the changes contained in a Github pull request as a unified diff  
  https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6188591/download-github-pull-request-as-unified-diff

---

# github.com related resources
### `gitub push` error on command line after enabling 2FA auth
I was expecting some kind of error on command line after enabling 2 Factor Authentication (2FA) because `git push` doesn't care about it. Official github guide on this topic is reported as:
(https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line).
This solution suggests using access tokens as preferred way to solve it, sounds nice and easy to me.
