xwindow/xorg.x11.forwarding.md, before:

# How to forward X11 application in a ssh tunnel
To use X11 applications inside ssh tunnels all you need is open connections with something like:
`ssh -X user@remoteserver` and a brand new shell is created on `remoteserver`.

## ERROR: X11 forwarding request failed on channel 0
`X11 forwarding request failed on channel 0`

This is a common error when your X11 connection is not properly configured, default security policies on every major
distributions have X11 disabled by default (because it's the right thing to do), but when you're in a private/safe lan
is not wrong to disable this sanity check.

Here are needed steps to avoid it:
- Edit `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file
- Set these options in it
```conf
    AllowTcpForwarding  yes
    X11Forwarding       yes
    X11DisplayOffset    10
    X11UseLocalhost     yes
```
- Save and close the file
- Restart sshd daemon (with init script or systemctl utility)
- Check if `xauth` is present on `remoteserver`, if it not present you need to install it with your favorite
package manager
- Open a new shell from `localhost` to `remoteserver` with a command like this one:
```
ssh -X user@remoteserver
```
- First time you log into `remoteserver` you may see an output message like
```
/usr/bin/xauth:  file /home/YourUserName/.Xauthority does not exist
```
  It's quite normal, xauth is informing you about your brand new xauth security file, just ignore it

Now in this new shell you can run everything you want from command line and applications will be rendered locally on your
XOrg server

### Note:
If you receive errors trying to run graphical applications, try ForwardX11Trusted instead
```sh
ssh -Y user@remoteserver
```

Commit message:

Revised X11Forwarding guide
- Keeping only needed configs
- xorg-xauth has to be installed on both sides
- troubleshooting on .Xauthority fix

xwindow/xorg.x11.forwarding.md, after:

# How to forward X11 application in a ssh tunnel
To use X11 applications inside ssh tunnels all you need is open connections with something like:
`ssh -X user@remoteserver` and a brand new shell is created on `remoteserver`.

## ERROR: X11 forwarding request failed on channel 0
`X11 forwarding request failed on channel 0`

This is a common error when your X11 connection is not properly configured, default security policies on every major
distributions have X11 disabled by default (because it's the right thing to do), but when you're in a private/safe lan
is not wrong to disable this sanity check.

Here are needed steps to avoid it:
- Edit `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` file
- Set these options in it
```conf
    X11Forwarding       yes
```
- Save and close the file
- Restart sshd daemon (with init script or systemctl utility)
- Install `xorg-xauth` in your local machine to connect and support x11 authentication through the tunnel, the package
  has no dependencies and it's quite thin but it has to be installed (locally and on remote server)
- Check if `xauth` is present on `remoteserver`, if it not present you need to install it with your favorite package
  manager. Usually called `xorg-xauth|x11-auth|xauth`. Most common name is `xorg-xauth`.
- Open a new shell from `localhost` to `remoteserver` with a command like this one:
```
ssh -X user@remoteserver
```
- First time you log into `remoteserver` you may see an output message like
```
/usr/bin/xauth:  file /home/YourUserName/.Xauthority does not exist
```
  It's quite normal, xauth is informing you about your brand new xauth security file, just ignore it or reboot to see if
  it goes away. On latest xorg installations a reboot is suggested.

Now in this new shell you can run everything you want from command line and applications will be rendered locally on your
XOrg server

### Note:
If you receive errors trying to run graphical applications, try ForwardX11Trusted instead
```sh
ssh -Y user@remoteserver
```
